EXULT lets you browse around the Ultima7 universe in a window under Linux,
and possibly other Unix systems.  It is released under the GNU General Public
License, and contains source code.  This is my first attempt at graphical
X programming, so please excuse any roughness in my code.

Version 0.09 is the first WIN32 release, done entirely by W.J. Palenstijn.
Please see his "readme.w95" file.

Version 0.08's major new feature is a builtin script compiler for the 
conversation engine.  There are a couple script examples, "test1.scr" and
"test2.scr".  To run, for example, the second example, enter:
		exult test2.scr
The script language uses absolute locations in the game, which can be
obtained by clicking the middle mouse button while holding the SHIFT key
down.

In addition, 0.08 has greatly improved object identification, thanks to
contributor Tristan Tarrant.

Version 0.07 has my first, rough attempt at creating a conversation engine
based on muliple finite-state-machines.  You can double-click on Iolo or the
female Avatar and have a brief conversation.  My goal is to provide a script-
ing capability for conversations, and the engine is being designed with that
as a goal.  The interface to conversations is currently only implemented for
Linux.

Version 0.06's main enhancements involve portability to MSDOS.  The startup
memory requirements are also greatly reduced.

Version 0.05 is even closer to being a game engine.  It not only
allows you to walk the avatar around using the right mouse button, but also
has two NPC's wandering around randomly; plus, it now has text-rendering
capabilities.

Although I'm designing Exult under X, I want it to be as portable as possible
to other platforms and graphics systems (like SVGALIB and GGI).  This is why
I've gone to the trouble of doing the text rendering using FreeType, since it's
already highly portable and completely graphics-system independent.

This program is based on the work of Gary Thompson in uncovering the format
of the Ultima 7 data files.  My eventual goal is to make it possible to create
Ultima7-type games under Linux.

Requirements:	Ultima7 must be installed and visible.  The "exult" executable
		should be placed in the top-level u7 directory (where "static"
		appears as a subdirectory).  You also need "avatar.ttf" in the
		same directory as "exult".

		Your X display must be in 8-bit or 16-bit color.
		(24-bit is left as an exercise to the user :-)).

Installation:	On a RedHat Linux system, just type
		'make' in the directory where you unpacked "exult".  On other
		systems, I'm afraid you'll have to modify the "makefile" by
		hand.  Then copy "exult" and "avatar.ttf" to your Ultima7
		directory.  Starting with version 0.04, you also need to have
		the "FreeType" library installed on your system when you build
		"Exult".

		Exult will attempt to show the moveable objects in the
		"u7ireg" files if they exist.  You will have had to play the
		actual Ultima 7 game (under DOS) at least once for these
		files to exist, as the installation program doesn't create
		them.

		A binary built on a RedHat 5.0 x86 system is included, static-
		ally linked as much as possible.

Caveats:	The program is a memory hog.  Really makes me appreciate
		Origin's accomplishment in making it run under DOS.

		Z-ordering is far from perfect.  Sometimes trees get clipped
		by the roof that's behind them, and objects on top of carpets
		sometimes get clipped.

		I obviously haven't chosen all correct frames for the Avatar's
		animation as he walks around.

		No object avoidance:  you can walk through walls, trees, etc.

		I'm not sure if the program works with a 2-button mouse.

Running:	Hold right mouse button down to move Avatar.
		Click on objects with left button to identify them.
		Double-click on doors, shutters with left button to open or
			close them.
		Arrow keys scroll around the "universe".
		'q' quits.
		'p' repaints the screen.
		'l' cycles through the "lift factors", causing roofs to
			disappear so you can see inside buildings.
		'+' brightens the palette.
		'-' darkens the palette.

Credits:	The paper by Gary Thompson on the structure of the U7 data
		files was crucial to the development of Exult.

		Font rendering is done using the FreeType font engine.

		Thanks also go to the person who wrote u7items.txt and the
		contributor of the "avatar.ttf" font.

I can be reached for complaints/complements/code-modifications at
jsf@hevanet.com.

-- Jeff Freedman

