You can obtain a full build of the Keyring mod at the author's website:
http://seventowers.u7feudallands.com/index.php

If, instead, you want to build it yourself, you will have to obtain UCC and expack;
both can be built from source (or, if you use Windows, you can obtain a copy of
them in the Tools Snapshot in the Exult Downloads page).

It is recommended that you place both executables in your system's PATH variable
(whether by placing them in a directory found in that variable or by adding the
directory they are in to said variable); I will assume that you have done so.

Then you proceed with:
  1) Change to the 'bgkeyring/src' directory and run "ucc -o usecode usecode.uc";

  2) Run "expack -i faces.in", "expack -i gumps.in", "expack -i paperdol.in" and
     "expack -i shapes.in" (in any order you prefer);

  3) Move the 'usecode' file (generated in (1), above) to 'bgkeyring/data'.

Congratulations, the 'bgkeyring/data' directory now contains all that is needed
to run the Keyring mod.

There are script files for automating this proccess (both in 'bgkeyring/src'):
  1) Windows users can run the supplied 'make.bat' DOS Batch file;

  2) Users of POSIX-compliant systems can use the supplied 'make.sh' script.

Be aware that both script files file assume that UCC and Expack are somewhere
in your PATH variable.

To actually use the Keyring mod in Exult, you will need to use the 'Keyring.cfg'
found in the same directory as this file, as well as needing to know the path to
your BG's 'mods' directory. The 'mods' directory is usually a directory called
'mods' you create in the same level as your BG's 'STATIC' directory.

Then, to install the Keyring mod:

  1) Copy the supplied 'Keyring.cfg' to your mods folder.
  
  2) Create the directory 'mods/Keyring' (CASE SENSITIVE -- use the exact same
     case you used in the 'Keyring.cfg' file name) and copy (or move) the
	 'bgkeyring/data' directory	to this newly-created 'mods/Keyring' directory.
	 
That is it! Just run Exult and enjoy!
