You can obtain a full build of the SI Fixes mod at the author's website:
http://seventowers.u7feudallands.com/index.php

If, instead, you want to build it yourself, you will have to obtain UCC and expack;
both can be built from source (or, if you use Windows, you can obtain a copy of
them in the Tools Snapshot in the Exult Downloads page).

It is recommended that you place both executables in your system's PATH variable
(whether by placing them in a directory found in that variable or by adding the
directory they are in to said variable); I will assume that you have done so.

Then you proceed with:
  1) Change to the 'sifixes/src' directory and run "ucc -o usecode usecode.uc";

  2) OPTIONAL: Run "expack -i mainshp.in";

  3) Move the 'usecode' file (generated in (1), above) to 'sifixes/data'.

Congratulations, the 'sifixes/data' directory now contains all that is needed
to run the SI Fixes. If you executed step (2), you will have a new title screen
which can confirm that you are indeed playing SI Fixes.

There are script files for automating this proccess (both in 'sifixes/src'):
  1) Windows users can run the supplied 'make.bat' DOS Batch file;

  2) Users of POSIX-compliant systems can use the supplied 'make.sh' script.

Be aware that both script files file assume that UCC and Expack are somewhere
in your PATH variable.

To actually use the SI Fixes in Exult, you will need to use the 'sifixes.cfg'
found in the same directory as this file, as well as needing to know the path to
your SI's 'mods' directory. The 'mods' directory is usually a directory called
'mods' you create in the same level as your SI's 'STATIC' directory.

Then, to install the SI Fixes:

  1) Copy the supplied 'sifixes.cfg' to your mods folder.
  
  2) Create the directory 'mods/sifixes' (CASE SENSITIVE -- use the exact same
     case you used in the 'sifixes.cfg' file name) and copy (or move) the
	 'sifixes/data' directory to this newly-created 'mods/sifixes' directory.
	 
That is it! Just run Exult and enjoy!
